README.md, before:

# Resilient RCM Eligibility Gateway

A fault-tolerant backend bridge designed to maintain system stability during external API outages—a critical requirement for AI agents interacting with non-deterministic healthcare platforms.

## Architecture Diagram

```mermaid
graph TD
    subgraph "AI Agent Layer"
        AI["AI Agent / Frontend"]
    end

    subgraph "Resilient Gateway (NestJS)"
        CTRL["AppController"]
        subgraph "Middleware & Guards"
            SEC["API Key & Helmet"]
            THROT["Throttler / Rate Limit"]
            IDEM["Idempotency Interceptor"]
        end
        CACHE[("Idempotency Cache")]
        RES["Resilience Engine"]
        ELIG["Eligibility Service"]
        SQS["SQS Service"]
    end

    subgraph "Observability"
        LOGS[("Structured Logs - PHI REDACTED")]
    end

    subgraph "External Systems"
        CH["Clearinghouse API (Flaky/Slow)"]
        AWS["AWS SQS (Retry Queue)"]
    end

    AI -->|"POST /eligibility/verify"| CTRL
    CTRL --> SEC
    SEC --> THROT
    THROT --> IDEM
    IDEM <-->|"Check/Store"| CACHE
    IDEM --> RES

    RES -->|"1. Try"| ELIG
    ELIG -->|"Logger"| LOGS
    ELIG -.->|"X12 270/271"| CH
    
    RES -->|"2. Exponential Backoff"| ELIG
    RES -->|"3. Circuit Breaker"| ELIG
    RES -->|"4. Fallback"| SQS
    
    SQS -->|"Push"| AWS
    
    RES -.->|"AI-Ready Response"| AI
```

## Production-Grade Features

### Security and Compliance
- **PHI Redaction**: Automatic scrubbing of patient information (e.g., `patient_name`) from all system logs to ensure HIPAA compliance.
- **API Security**: Guarded by `x-api-key` and **Helmet** security headers.
- **Input Validation**: Strict DTO validation using `class-validator` to prevent malformed injections.

### Reliability and Performance
- **Circuit Breaker**: Instrumented with `opossum` to prevent system exhaustion during downstream outages.
- **Exponential Backoff**: RxJS-powered intelligent retries (1s, 2s, 4s). *This is a standard industry practice to avoid overwhelming failing systems.*
- **Rate Limiting**: Protects downstream clearinghouses from AI Agent "loops" or spikes (10 req/min limit).
- **Idempotency**: `x-idempotency-key` support via local cache to prevent duplicate RCM transactions.

### Resilience Fallback & DLQ
- **Asynchronous Spooling**: Failed or timed-out requests are automatically spooled to **AWS SQS**.
- **Dead Letter Queue (DLQ)**: Requests that fail all retry attempts are moved to an **audit-ready DLQ** for manual remediation, ensuring zero data loss.
- **AI-Optimized JSON**: Returns standardized responses allowing AI Agents to handle background states gracefully.

## Getting Started

### 1. Environment Configuration
Create a `.env` file in the root directory:
```env
CB_TIMEOUT=5000
CB_RESET_TIMEOUT=10000
SQS_QUEUE_URL=eligibility-retry-queue
AWS_REGION=us-east-1
API_KEY=secure-api-key
```

### 2. Installation
```bash
npm install
```

### 3. Running the Service
```bash
npm start
```

## Quick Start / API Example

The **AI Agent** (or automated producer) submits a standard JSON payload representing an eligibility inquiry. The gateway then translates and manages the resilience lifecycle.

### Request Body (POST /eligibility/verify)
```json
{
  "patient_name": "Sphoorti Mirji",
  "payer_id": "BCBS_001",
  "batch_id": "B_2026_01"
}
```

### Response Body (Success)
```json
{
  "status": "SUCCESS",
  "resolution_path": "DIRECT_CLEARINGHOUSE_API",
  "data": {
    "eligibility_status": "ACTIVE",
    "plan_details": "Comprehensive Coverage",
    "timestamp": "2026-01-02T20:48:41Z"
  }
}
```

### Response Body (Fallback/Queued)
When clearinghouses are down or slow:
```json
{
  "status": "QUEUED",
  "resolution_path": "SPOOL_TO_SQS",
  "message": "Eligibility request accepted for asynchronous processing",
  "reason": "Clearinghouse API Timeout"
}
```

## Testing Suite

### Unit Tests
```bash
npm test
```

### Production Ingestion Verification
```bash
npm run verify
```

### High-Scale Stress Testing
```bash
npm run stress
```

## Additional Resources
- [Cost Analysis: Circuit Breaker Implementation](file:///Users/sphoortimirji/llm/deterministic-gateway-for-ai-agents/COST_ANALYSIS.md)
- [The Bridge: JSON (AI) to X12 (Clearinghouse)](file:///Users/sphoortimirji/llm/deterministic-gateway-for-ai-agents/X12_BRIDGE.md)

## Domain Context
This service abstracts the complexity of **X12 270/271** eligibility transactions, providing a modern, reliable REST interface for next-gen healthcare AI Agents.

Commit message:

feat: production-harden circuit breaker and eligibility mock simulation
- Updated ResilienceService with configurable volumeThreshold (default 100).
- Added ConfigService support for CB thresholds and rolling windows.
- Enhanced EligibilityService with adjustable MOCK_FAILURE_RATE for stress testing.
- Improved PHI scrubber with recursive object/array support.
- Integrated PHI scrubbing into SQS logging.
- Updated README with new configuration parameters.

README.md, after:

# Resilient RCM Eligibility Gateway

A fault-tolerant backend bridge designed to maintain system stability during external API outages—a critical requirement for AI agents interacting with non-deterministic healthcare platforms.

## Architecture Diagram

```mermaid
graph TD
    subgraph "AI Agent Layer"
        AI["AI Agent / Frontend"]
    end

    subgraph "Resilient Gateway (NestJS)"
        CTRL["AppController"]
        subgraph "Middleware & Guards"
            SEC["API Key & Helmet"]
            THROT["Throttler / Rate Limit"]
            IDEM["Idempotency Interceptor"]
        end
        CACHE[("Idempotency Cache")]
        RES["Resilience Engine"]
        ELIG["Eligibility Service"]
        SQS["SQS Service"]
    end

    subgraph "Observability"
        LOGS[("Structured Logs - PHI REDACTED")]
    end

    subgraph "External Systems"
        CH["Clearinghouse API (Flaky/Slow)"]
        AWS["AWS SQS (Retry Queue)"]
    end

    AI -->|"POST /eligibility/verify"| CTRL
    CTRL --> SEC
    SEC --> THROT
    THROT --> IDEM
    IDEM <-->|"Check/Store"| CACHE
    IDEM --> RES

    RES -->|"1. Try"| ELIG
    ELIG -->|"Logger"| LOGS
    ELIG -.->|"X12 270/271"| CH
    
    RES -->|"2. Exponential Backoff"| ELIG
    RES -->|"3. Circuit Breaker"| ELIG
    RES -->|"4. Fallback"| SQS
    
    SQS -->|"Push"| AWS
    
    RES -.->|"AI-Ready Response"| AI
```

## Production-Grade Features

### Security and Compliance
- **PHI Redaction**: Automatic scrubbing of patient information (e.g., `patient_name`) from all system logs to ensure HIPAA compliance.
- **API Security**: Guarded by `x-api-key` and **Helmet** security headers.
- **Input Validation**: Strict DTO validation using `class-validator` to prevent malformed injections.

### Reliability and Performance
- **Circuit Breaker**: Instrumented with `opossum` to prevent system exhaustion during downstream outages. Configured with a default **100-call volume threshold** and **50% error threshold**.
- **Exponential Backoff**: RxJS-powered intelligent retries (1s, 2s, 4s). *This is a standard industry practice to avoid overwhelming failing systems.*
- **Rate Limiting**: Protects downstream clearinghouses from AI Agent "loops" or spikes (10 req/min limit).
- **Idempotency**: `x-idempotency-key` support via local cache to prevent duplicate RCM transactions.

### Resilience Fallback & DLQ
- **Asynchronous Spooling**: Failed or timed-out requests are automatically spooled to **AWS SQS**.
- **Dead Letter Queue (DLQ)**: Requests that fail all retry attempts are moved to an **audit-ready DLQ** for manual remediation, ensuring zero data loss.
- **AI-Optimized JSON**: Returns standardized responses allowing AI Agents to handle background states gracefully.

## Getting Started

### 1. Environment Configuration
Create a `.env` file in the root directory:
```env
CB_TIMEOUT=5000
CB_RESET_TIMEOUT=10000
CB_VOLUME_THRESHOLD=100
CB_ERROR_THRESHOLD=50
CB_WINDOW=10000
MOCK_FAILURE_RATE=0.6
SQS_QUEUE_URL=eligibility-retry-queue
AWS_REGION=us-east-1
API_KEY=secure-api-key
```

### 2. Installation
```bash
npm install
```

### 3. Running the Service
```bash
npm start
```

## Quick Start / API Example

The **AI Agent** (or automated producer) submits a standard JSON payload representing an eligibility inquiry. The gateway then translates and manages the resilience lifecycle.

### Request Body (POST /eligibility/verify)
```json
{
  "patient_name": "John Doe",
  "payer_id": "BCBS_001",
  "batch_id": "B_2026_01"
}
```

### Response Body (Success)
```json
{
  "status": "SUCCESS",
  "resolution_path": "DIRECT_CLEARINGHOUSE_API",
  "data": {
    "eligibility_status": "ACTIVE",
    "plan_details": "Comprehensive Coverage",
    "timestamp": "2026-01-02T20:48:41Z"
  }
}
```

### Response Body (Fallback/Queued)
When clearinghouses are down or slow:
```json
{
  "status": "QUEUED",
  "resolution_path": "SPOOL_TO_SQS",
  "message": "Eligibility request accepted for asynchronous processing",
  "reason": "Clearinghouse API Timeout"
}
```

## Testing Suite

### Unit Tests
```bash
npm test
```

### Production Ingestion Verification
```bash
npm run verify
```

### High-Scale Stress Testing
```bash
npm run stress
```

## Additional Resources
- [Cost Analysis: Circuit Breaker Implementation](file:///Users/sphoortimirji/llm/deterministic-gateway-for-ai-agents/COST_ANALYSIS.md)
- [The Bridge: JSON (AI) to X12 (Clearinghouse)](file:///Users/sphoortimirji/llm/deterministic-gateway-for-ai-agents/X12_BRIDGE.md)

## Domain Context
This service abstracts the complexity of **X12 270/271** eligibility transactions, providing a modern, reliable REST interface for next-gen healthcare AI Agents.
